                                           Government  of Pakistan 
                                               Revenue  Division 

                                          Federal  Board of Revenue 
                                                       *+**+ 

                                                                         Islamabad,  the 29th  January,  2025. 

                                               NOTIFICATION 

           S.R.O.  69  (l) I 2025.-  In exercise  of the powers  conferred  by section  50 of the 

Sales Tax Act,  1990 read with  sub-section (9A) of section 3, sections  22.23  and 40C thereof, 

the  Federal  Board of Revenue  is pleased to direct  that  the following further  amendments  shall 

be made  in the  Sales  Tax  Rules.  2006,  namely:- 

          In the  aforesaid  rules, 

          (  I  )  for  Chapter XIV. the following shall  be substituted, namely:  - 

                                                               "Chapter XIV 

                   PROCEDT]RE  FOR  LICENSING  ISSUANCE  OF ELECTRONIC SALES 
                      TAX  INVOICf,  S AND  INTEGRATION  OF REGISTERED  PERSONS 

                             150Q. Application.-  (l) Subject to sub-rule  (2). provisions  of this 

                   Chapter  shall  apply to all registered  persons  for electronic integration  of their 

                   hardware and software  used for  generation and  transmission  of electronic 

                   invoices through  license  integrator  or otherwise  as  provided  in these  rules. 

                             (2) The  Board shall  notifu such  registered  persons or class  of 
                   registered  persons through  a notification  in the official  Gazette  for the 

                   purposes of sub-rule  (  l): 

                             Provided  that  the registered  persons  who  have already  registered  and 

                   integrated  their point of sale with the  Board's  computerised  system  shall be 

                   treated  to  have been  integrated with  Board's computerised  system  under these 

                   rules. 

                             150R, Obligations and  requirements.-  (l)The registered  person 
                    notified under sub-rule  (2) olrule l50Q  hereinafter  refered to as  "integrated 

                    person"  in this Chapter.  shall  register. install  and integrate his electronic 

                    invoicing  hardware and  software  with the  Board's  computerized  system  in the 

                   manner specified  by the  Board through  a  Sales  Tax  General  Order. 

                                                           I 
﻿         (2)   The inte$ated  person through  Board's  online system  shall 
provide  information  of his outlets,  points  of sale or electronic  invoicing 

machines  as the  case  may  be. 

         (3)   No supply  shall be made by the integrated  person. except 
through  the  integrated outlets.  point of sale or electronic  invoice  issuing 

machines. 

         (4)   The  point  ofsale  or the  electronic invoice issuing  machine shall 

perform  the  following functions,  namely:  
                                                   - 

                  (a)      generate,  receive,  record, analyze  and  store  invoice  data; 

                  (b)       issue  sales  tax  invoices  in the  prescribed  format,  create 
                           the  digital  signature  and  record  the  digital  signature on 
                           the  sales  tax  invoice: 

                  (c)      transmit  the  invoice  data  to the  Board's  Computerized 
                            System through  secure means and  receive the  unique 
                            F  BR invoice  number: 

                  (d)   encrypt and  preserve  the  reported  sales  tax  invoice  data 
                            in an  irrevocable  and  secure  manner; 

                  (e)   generate the  QR  Code  on the  base ofunique FBR 
                            invoice  number and  print the  QR Code  on  receipt; 

                  (0        must  perform  closing  on close  ofthe  day,  week and 
                           month; and 

                  G)       every  adjustment,  modification  or cancellation  must be 
                            recorded  duly  maintaining  logs for each  activity; and 
                           system  events  need to  be  recorded. 

         (5)   The Annexure{  of the  sales tax  retum shall  be auto-filled 

from the  electronic  invoices  issued by the  integrated  person. 

         (6)   The electronic  invoicing  software  or point  of sales  software 

shall  be capable  of generating and sending alert  messages  to the  Board's 

computerized  system  in case  of any malpractice  or error  or any  inconsistent 

action  noticed  in the  system  and  keeping a  log thereof. 

         (7)   l'he Board  may require an  integrated  person  to  integrate  the 

facility of debit and credit card machine. QR Code  or any other  mode of 

digital transaction  available at all the sale points  and the sales through 

aloresaid  means  shall  not be ordinarilv  refused. 

         (8)      The Board may require an                 integrated person  to record 

                                      2 
﻿transactions  on each point  of sales  by a CCTV camera  and  the  recording 

thereof shall  be retained  for  a period of at least  one  month. Such recordings 

shall  be provided  to the Commissioner  concemed  as and when  demanded  and 

for  the  period of time as specified  by the Board through a sales tax general 

order. 

         (9)      In case  of supply  of exempt  items, the  electronic invoices  shall 

also  be issued through  system  integrated with the  Board's  Computerized 

System  under these  rules. 

         (10) The cost for  integration  including  the cost of equipment  and 

electronic  invoicing  software  or point of sales software  shall  be borne  by the 

integrated person. 

         (l l)   The  integrated  person  shall  prominently  display on each  ofthe 

notified outlets,  points  of sale or electronic  invoicing  machines  a signboard 

bearing  FBR's official logo  along with  the text  "lntegrated  with  FBR"  and 

also the  registration number  of each  electronic  invoicing  software  or point of 

sales  software  verifiable through  the  Board's verification  services. 

         (12) In case  of online  sale  including online  market  place, the 

integrated  person  shall  register  such website,  software  and  mobile application 

with  the  Board's Computerised  System to  record the auto-electronic invoices 

as  specified  by the  Board through  a Sales  Tax  General Order. 

         (13) The  electronic  invoice  generated  under  these  rules shall contain 

the  following  particulars,  namely:- 

                 (a)      unique  FBR  invoice number (XXXXXX- 
                          DDMMYYHHMMSS-0001   ). 

                 (b)      unique and verifiable  QR code  dimensions:  7X7MM; 

                 (c)      unique  electronic invoicing or point  ofsales  software 
                          registration  number; 

                 (d)      logo of  FBR digital invoicing system: 

                  (e)     name of the  seller: 

                  (0      address  ofthe seller; 

                 (e)      seller  registration  number; 

                  (h)     name of the  recipient; 

                  (i)     address  of the  recipient; 
﻿                C)       recipient  registration  number; 
                 (k)   date of issue  ofinvoice; 
                 0)      tax  period: 
                 (m)  description; 
                 (n)   quantity; 
                 (o)   value exclusive  oftax; 
                 (p)   sales  tax rate; 
                 (q)   amount of sales  tax; 
                 (r)     sales tax withheld  at sourca; 
                 (s)   extra tax; 
                 (t)     further  tax; 
                 (u)   federal excise  duty  payable in sales  tax mode; 
                 (v)   total  discount 
                 (w)  invoice  reference  no 
                 (x)     HS code; 
                 (V)  unit of measurement;  and 
                 (z)      SRO  and serial  number applicable: 

         Provided  that  the  particulars in respect of serial  numbers  (s), (t), (u) 

and  (z) may  not apply to a  retailer  issuing electronic  invoices to general  public 

other  than  a manufacturer-cum-retailer  or an  importer-cum-retailer. 

         1505. Issuance ofelectronic  invoice and  record.-  (l) The  integrated 

person shall  issue a  real-time verifiable  electronic sales tax  invoice for  every 

taxable  supply  and  service.  The  invoice  so issued  shall  be retained as  record 

for a  period  of six years  on electronic  media as  provided  under section  24 of 

the Act. 

         (2)   The  debit  note and  credit  note shall also  be issued  electronically 
through  the integrated  system  and  retained  for a period  of six years  as 

provided  in sub-rule  (l). 

         (3)   ln case  of online  sale  including online  market  place. the 

electronic  invoices  shall  be issued  automatically  and  the  record  thereof shall 

be maintained for a period of six years  as  provided in sub-rule  (3). 

                                    1 
﻿                150T. Conditions  for electronic  storage.-  The electronic 
documents  specified  in rule l50S shall  be stored  in such manner  that 
information  at the time of original  transmission  of the document  is re- 

created  at the time  of departmental audit. 

                  150U. Audit.  - (l) The  integrated person  shall provide  access 

to  premises  and  all the  record specified  in sections  22  and 23  ofthe Act for the 

purposes  of sections  25 and  38 ofthe Act to the  Officer  of  lnland Revenue as 

authorized  by the  Commissioner  having jurisdiction. 

         (2)   The  Board may  issue instructions  for technical  audit. 

         150V. Extension  in due  date  of  Integration       The  Commissioner  lnland 
                                                          -  
Revenue  having jurisdiction  may allow extension  in time. for  up to sixty  days 

in aggregate with  fifteen days intervals, for  integration or compliance  under 

this  chapter: 

         Provided  that such  integrated  person shall continue  to issue  paper 

invoices until such time  as  extended  by the  Commissioner. 

         150W.  Provisions of Electronic  Transactions  Ordinance,  2002.  
                                                                                          - 
All the  provisions  of  Electronic Transactions  Ordinance,  2002 (Ll of 2002), 

 relating to  the  recognition  of  documents,  records,  information, 
communication and transaction  in  electronic  form, accreditation  of 

certification  service providers  and for  matters  ancillary thereto, shall apply. 

          150X.  Consequences  of  non-compliance  or contravention.-  (1) The 

 integrated  person  who  is found  to  have  tampered  with the system  or made 

 sales  in the  manner otherwise  than as prescribed in this  Chapter, or who 

 contravenes  any of the  provisions of this  Chapter,  shall  be subject to  penalty 

 under section  33 and any  restriction  under any  provisions  of the Act  or the 

 rules made thereunder. 

          l50XA. Responsibilities  of the  Integrated Persons.               The 
                                                                         -  
 integrated  person  shall  
                           - 
                   (a)   make all electronic  invoicing  hardware and software 

                           including  payment  counters  comprising  point  of sale  at 

                           each  outlet,  available  for  installation ofthe systems; 

                   (b)     be responsible for smooth functioning  of all the 

                                      5 
﻿                          hardware  and  software: 

                 (c)      report  to the  Board and the  concemed  Commissioner 

                          within  twenty-four  hours ol any  operational  failure, 

                          damage disruptions  or tampering  ofthe system;  or 

                 (d)      report  any  inoperative  electronic  invoicing hardware 

                          and software within twenty-four hours with  reasons 

                          along  with  documentary  evidence to the  Commissioner 

                          holding  the j  urisdiction. 

         l50XB.  Provision of verification facility by the Board.-  The  Board 

shall  provide a facility on its website  to the  buyer  of an  integrated  person to 

verify  if the  invoice issued to him by such  integrated  person  has been 

communicated  to the  Board's  Computerized  System. 

         l50XC.  Internet  Interruption. - The  invoices generated during  any 

period of failure  of electronic  invoicing software  or point of sales software 

including  disruption  caused  by intemet or  power failure  shall  be clearly 

identified as  invoices  issued  in the  offline  mode  and  shall  be uploaded within 

24  hours  of  restoration. 

         l50XD. Functions  of the  Officer  of  Inland  Revenue.-   l) (              The 

Officer of  Inland  Revenue having jurisdiction,  shall  monitor  operation  of the 

system  through  periodic  visits authorized  in this  behalf  by, the  Commissioner. 

         (2)   Where  an integrated  person  does not account for  sales without 

generating an  invoice  countering  QR code or  FBR invoice number, the  Officer 

of Inland  Revenue  shall compute the taxes  on such goods  relating to 

unaccounted for  invoices,  and  recover the  same  under the relevant  provisions 

of law, besides any other  action  including  penal action  that  may be taken 

under the Act  or the  rules  made there  under. 

         l50XE.  Licensing.        (l) Save  as  provided  in rule l50XF,  no person 
                                -  
shall carry out  integration of the notified  registered  persons through  sofiware 

unless he has obtained a license  under these rules. 

         (2) No licensee  under  these  rules shall  maintain  or operate  system  or 

provide  any  other service,  which  is not authorized  under these rules. 

                                    6 
﻿        (3)  Every electronic  invoicing software  or point  of sales  software 

including  payment  counter  whether fixed  or portable  of the  notified  registered 

person  which generates  invoices for  receipt ofpayment  either in cash  or through 

debit or credit  card shall  be integrated  with the Board through  the  licensed 

integrator. 

         l50XF.  PRAL to act as a licensed integrator.  (l) Notwithstanding 

the  provisions  ofrules  l50XH,  l50XI, sub-rule  (2) of rule  l5OXJ  and  l50XK, 

PRAL shall act as  licensed  integrator for  the  purposes  of  rules l50XE, sub- 

rule  (1) of rule  l50XJ and  rule  150XL. 

         (2)  PRAL shall  provide free  of cost  integration services  to the 

registered persons on demand. 

         (3) PRAL, as and when  required  by the  Board, shall  provide a free 

of cost downloadable  electronic  invoicing software  or point of sales software 

on  Board's  official website. 

         t50XG.  Functions  of the licensing committee.               (l) Board shall 
                                                                  -  
notifo a licensing  committee which  shall  perform function  in accordance  with 

the  provisions  of rules  l50Xl,  l50XK and l50XN  or any other instructions  or 

procedures,  issued  by the  Board. 

         (2) Board  shall notifo  convenor ofthe licensing committee. 
         l50XH. Application  for grant  of  licence.           (l) An  application  for 
                                                           -  
grant of licence  for  integration  of any  registered  person shall be made  in 

duplicate  to the  Board. 

         (2) No application  under  sub-rule  (1) shall  be considered. unless  it is 
accompanied  by- 
                 (a)   a comprehensive profile ofthe company; 
                 (b)      brief about  managerial  and technical  personnel 
                          indicating  name,  position,  qualification  and  experience; 

                 (c)     total  number ofcurrent  employees; 
                 (d)   documents  showing  relevant capacity of  the 
                          development  and  integration  with enterprise  resource 
                          planning  systems  and  Payment Processing  Systems; 

                 (e)      registration  certificate  issued  by Pakistan software 
                          houses Association  or  Institute of  Chartered 
                          Accountants  of Pakistan: 

                 (f)      audited  statement  of accounts for the  last three  financial 

                                    1 
﻿                           years 

                  (g)   list of major  clientele: 
                  (h)   incorporation  certificate  under the  Companies  Act; 
                  (D       National  Tax  Number  (NTN) Certificate: 
                  0)       the  paid up capital for  the  latest  financial  year  is at  least 
                           Rs.  l0 million  or abovel 

                  (k)      registration  with Sales  Tax  Department  if required; 
                  (l)      Computerized  National Identity  Cards  (CNICs)  of 
                           directors  ofthe  incorporated company; 

                  (m)  undertaking that the  company  has never  been  blacklisted 
                           by any  Govemment  or  Provincial  department  or 
                           organization  and  has  not  been  involved in confirmed 
                           cases offiscal fraud; 

                  (n)   list ofprojects  executed  in the  last three  years;  and 
                  (o)   any  other  documents  required through  instructions 
                           orders  issued  by the  Board. 

          l50XI. Procedure for grant of licence.                     (l)  On  receipt  of 
                                                                -  
 application  for grant of licence  in the  Board, the  licensing  committee  shall 

 scrutinize the documents  provided and  it shall  evaluate  the  eligibility  of the 

 applicant  within seven days  of receipt ofapplication. 

         (2)   The  licensing  committee  may also carry out visits,  if necessary 

for  physical  inspection to ascertain  the  eligibility ofthe applicant  for  licensing 

 under  lhese  rules. 

         (3) The licensing committee  shall  recommend  or  rejecr an  application 

within  fifteen  days  ofdate of submission ofthe application,  specifying reasons 

fbr  recommendation or rejection  ofthe  application  under these  rules. 

         (4)   The  licensing  committee  shall make recommendations  to the 

Board for grant  of  licences  in respect  of the  companies who  meet the  criteria 

under these  rules. 

         (5)   The  licensing committee shall grant the licence to the 

recommended  applicant with  the  prior approval  from  the  Board. 

         l50XJ. Right granted  to the  licensee.  (l) A licensee shall  have 

the  right to  install,  configure,  integrate.  operate  and maintain  the  electronic 

invoicing  software  or  point of sales software  on  real time  basis  in accordance 

with  conditions  of the  licence issued  to  him. 

                                     8 
﻿        (2)   The  licence granted  under these  rules shall  be subject to 

provisions  ofthe Act  and  shall be valid for  five years  from date ofissuance. 

        (3)   The  licence  granted  under these  rules  shall  be non-transferable 

and shall  not be allowed to  be used  by any sub-contractor. 

         150XK. Renewal of licence.- (  l) The  application  for  renewal  of 

licence shall  be  made to the  Board three  months before its expiry. 

         (2) The  licensing  committee  shall  evaluate  the application and  make 

recommendations to the  Board for  the  renewal oflicence. 

         (3)   The  licensee shall  be required  to  comply  with  all the 

provisions  of these  rules for the renewal  period. 

         l50XL. Technical  support.-  (l) The  licensee shall  be responsible 

for  post deployment  maintenance  ofthe system,  including  
                                                                 - 
                 (a)   setting  up and  maintenance  ofall  information 
                         technology  equipment  connected  to the  eleckonic 
                         invoicing  hardware and  software:  and 

                 (b)     is authorized to,  
                                            - 
                         (i)      upgrade  the  system  hardware  and software; 
                          (ii)    fix all bugs;  and 
                          (iii)   immediately  respond  to troubleshoot  any  post 
                                  deployment problems  for   uninterrupted 
                                  working  of the system. 

         (2)   The  licensee shall  be responsible for safe and  secure capture  of 

 real-time transmission  of sales data from  the  electronic  invoicing  software  or 

 point  of sales  software to  FBR database  at  all times. 

         150XM. Supervision  of the  System.-  The  Board shall  notiry the team 

 responsible  for  overall  supervision  of the system  and the steps to be taken  to 

 address  problems encountered  during  operation  ofthe systems. 

         l50XN.  Procedure  for  cancellation or termination of  licence'-  (l) 

 The Team notified  by the  Board as  a  result  of supervision  of the  system  or on 

 receipt of a report from  any  of the  Commissioners  lnland Revenue, or on a 

 valid complaint,  shall  initiate  process for  cancellation  oithe  licence by causing 

 to serve  a notice upon  the licensee  immediately  or within fifteen  days of 

 receipt  ofthe  report  ofthe  Commissioner  or  a valid  complaint, to show cause 

                                    9 
﻿ as to why  the  licence issued under these  rules, may  not bc cancelled  or 

 terminated  if it has a  reason  to  believe  that the  licensee  has 

                   (a)     failed to  provide specified  services  to the  satisfaction  of 
                           the  Board; 

                  (b)      contravened  any  of the  conditions  ofthe license; 

                  (c)      contravened  any  provision ofthese  rules  or the Act;  or 

                  (d)      violated  any applicable  law while  being  a licensee 
                           under these  rules: 

          Provided  that  if on the basis of  material evidence,  there  exists  prima 

 facie sufficient  grounds against  the  licensee, the  licensing  committee  may 

 suspend the  license to safeguard  public  finances  and  to prevent any other 

 serious  damage. 

          (2)   The licensing committee  may, after giving the licensee 
 adequate  opportunity of being  heard and after  examination  of the  record. 

 cancel  or terminate the  licence issued under these rules. 

          (3)   ln case ofcancellation  oflicence  under  these  rules.  the affected 

 person  or  company  shall  have the  right to file  representation  against  the  order 

 of the  licensing committee  before  the  Board. 

         (4)   The  Board shall  decide  the  representation  after  giving proper 

 opportunity ofbeing heard and the  decision ofthe Board shall  be final. 

         l50XO.  Fee and charges.              (l) The  licensee shall charge  fee for 
                                           -  
 configuration  and  integration  of electronic  invoicing  software  or  point of sale 

software from  the  integmted  persons  not above  the threshold  as mav  be 

specified  by the  Board through  a sales  tax general  order. 

         (2)   No fee  shall  be  payable  by the  Board  and any ofits field 
lbrmations. 

         150XP. Establishment  of  Inland Revenue  enforcement  network 

The  Board shall establish  Inland Revenue enlorcement  network  which  shall be 

responsible for combatting  evasion  and  leakage  oftaxes  payable  on goods  and 

services  by way  ofenfbrcement  units of the  concemed filed  lormations. 

         l50XQ.  Functioning  of  Inland  Revenue enforcement network.  
                                                                                         - 
To  check  and  verily any  of the  eventualities,  the  enforcement  squads  of lnland 

                                    10 
﻿                  Revenue  shall  petrol the  premises  of the  integrated persons and verif, whether 

                  all the electronic  invoicing software  or  point of sales  software  are  integrated 

                  and invoices  are being  reported to  FBR in real-time  and  shall report  such 

                  invoices generated from  non-integrated  electronic  invoicing software  or 

                  point  of sales software  to Commissioner  Inland Revenue.  The  Commissioner, 

                  after receipt of the  report from  the  enforcement  network, shall  recover the  tax 

                  in accordance  with the  provisions  ofthe Act."; 

      (z',)   Chapter XIV- AA  and the  rules  contained  therein  shall  be omitted;  and 

      (3)     Chapter XIV-  BB and  the  rules  contained  therein  shall  be omitted. 

[C. No. l(17)  DD/Misc-Dl/2024lPart  Filel] 
                                                                                                                  -, 

                                                                          Second  Secretary  (ST& 

                                                          ll 
